good morning this area is called Boulder
flats in the Tonto National Forest I
think part of the name comes from all
these big rocks around here but my legs
are disputing the flat part fort can we
all these boulders make good places to
sit and rest well I talked some anime
voices of a distant star sometimes the
whole far exceeds the sum of its parts
the short sci-fi anime ova voices of a
distant star has exactly this kind of
Gestalt for decades in the future
mankind finds alien ruins on the Mars
tarses plateau but the entire expedition
studying those ruins is wiped out based
on the discovered alien technology there
the earth or just a military fleet to
track down the aliens schoolgirl me Kaku
is drafted into the effort as a pilot of
a new Mecca like space fighter call the
tracer that's not really what voices of
a distant star is about what it's about
is the long-distance relationship
between young spacer Amy Kaku and her
longtime childhood friend noboru who
remains back on earth after parting when
the fleet leaves for training around
Mars they keep in touch via cell phone
text messages as the fleet moves further
away to Jupiter than Pluto and then
beyond the messages take progressively
longer and longer to arrive and finally
when the fleet jumps through hyperspace
to the aliens home around serious
there's a lag of eight years between
messages no rule will eventually grow
into a man and still receive a belated
email from the still teenage me Kaku
sent eight years prior from serious
voices of a distant star has exactly two
characters we see noboru and macaco
together on earth we see noboru on earth
after the fleet leaves but he's always
alone and we see macaco in space but
always alone in the cockpit of her
fighter the rest of their every big
lives has been stripped away probably
macaco has friends and colleagues aboard
her spaceship but we never see them in
the anime we might assume macaco also
has parents back on earth but they're
never mentioned and certainly no beru
must have friends
school and later at work voices is only
about this couple period so they're all
we see and hear the story is told
through the messages macaque who sends
home we hear me kaku's voice read us our
emails and we listen in on the private
soliloquies of both me Kaku and noboru
each successive email from ikkaku sounds
a little bit of lonelier taken as a
whole voices of a distant star as an
exceptional short video that evokes a
strong sympathetic reaction through its
visuals dialogue and music nope Erica
Pasha imma die okay hey Hoda no me hace
aneema su esposa esta caro mohan toes
ishtiaq and eva voxx a chorus Toto
suzuki text and aikido Kyoko parish
innokin secure mother Connie mommy's got
day nine voices of a distant star was an
almost solo project by Makoto Shinkai
who wrote the screenplay and did all the
animation himself on his home computer
his self direction is extremely well
managed creating a very engaging short
story that quickly attracts our
attention and then fills in the details
later with a lot of small flashbacks
artistically shinkai is combined
multiple techniques on earth he creates
photorealistic urban backgrounds by
starting with photographs of real
locations and then repainting them in
slightly idealized form with incredible
detail that means his backgrounds are
invariably static and two-dimensional
which limits his camera movement of it
he compensates for that static camera by
adding dynamic reflections dancing
lights and shadows moving across the
scene and he ships scenes frequently he
also mixes a number of claustrophobic
scenes a classroom in the corner for
hiding under a shelter from the rain
with wide open shots of the sky where
phone poles contrails rain and snowfall
old rise vertically up into the sky in
contrast to his urban realism whatever
shinkai draws that sky it's greatly
idealized especially the night sky which
looks more like a survey image from the
Hubble Space Telescope then what one
actually sees for inner city at night
when the anime deals with space seeds
the view opens out 3d CDI takes over for
well animated battle sequences with
fluid camera motion shinkai spaceship
designs owe a lot to gunbuster and his
mecha de macoris in gundam the tracer
has a transparent cockpit with
360-degree vision which is used to give
the impression macaco floating all alone
in outer space compared to the rest of
the art the character designs are rather
simple with slightly angular whines and
two-tone shading there's not much sense
in asking why matako is fighting aliens
in the same school uniform she wore on
earth maybe the UN can't afford flight
suits shinkai also introduces animated
lens flare and other camera artifacts
that's a animation trick I've never
particularly understood it's not reality
but apparently agrees with JJ Abrams
that things don't look real anymore
unless they look like they're seen
through a camera but voices of a distant
star is a character-driven story and it
really shines at that telling a story of
two good friends pulled apart further
and further by time that's a message
that shinkai will return to in his later
works here he uses a train crossing as a
metaphor for that separation narrow de
todo comedy and Angie can go kokkari una
década de baja chicken or eat oh no como
para darte honto Sakura Monica
I like that UN spacy reference to macros
on the freight car there in order for
the story to work shinkai is envisioned
a sci-fi universe where hyperspace jumps
are possible only from specific places
and in just one direction relativistic
travel could have provided much the same
growing separation as with all the moons
forever war novel or the gun Buster Oh
va's but shinkai makes the possibility
of a return to Earth problematic the
music buy tenormin includes a single
vocal piece that drives the ending and
several different piano when orchestral
arrangements of that same tune used
throughout the anime they get a lot of
different moods from just one theme I
give voices of a distant star five stars
it makes it pleasantly melancholy 25
minutes from the sum of all these parts
the whole soaring far above this minor
limitations I have to comment on ADV
films dub they've used a very loose
translation and I think that in such a
unique show where the Creator did all
the work himself it might have been
better to stick more closely to the
original dialogue that seems an
especially egregious choice in an anime
where so much of the dialogue is voiced
over without showing the characters
speaking matching whip flaps certainly
is not an excuse the reversion English
dub even manages the mess up some
planetary distances at one point I think
it's best to stick with the subtitles
myself atvs DVD also includes an earlier
version of voices of a distant star
voice by director shinkai and his
fiancee as well as shinkai is animated
short she and her cat after the anime
was released there was a subsequent
manga adaptation of the story it
expanded things a bit to include some
additional characters and even included
a few pages of what happened next it's
available translated in english from
tokyo pop but i don't think it really
adds a whole lot to the experience the
anime is superior
thanks for watching